“The books that the world calls immoral are books that show the world its own shame.”

“Experience is merely the name men gave to their mistakes.”

“To define is to limit.”

“Nowadays people know the price of everything and the value of nothing.”

“Behind every exquisite thing that existed, there was something tragic.”

“The only way to get rid of temptation is to yield to it.”

“I am too fond of reading books to care to write them.”

“There is only one thing in the world worse than being talked about, and that is not being talked about.”

“Children begin by loving their parents; as they grow older they judge them; sometimes they forgive them.”

“Some things are more precious because they don't last long.”

“Nothing can cure the soul but the senses, just as nothing can cure the senses but the soul.”

“Nowadays most people die of a sort of creeping common sense, and discover when it is too late that the only things one never regrets are one's mistakes.”

“Every portrait that is painted with feeling is a portrait of the artist, not of the sitter.”

“Laughter is not at all a bad beginning for a friendship, and it is by far the best ending for one.”

“The basis of optimism is sheer terror.”

“Whenever a man does a thoroughly stupid thing, it is always from the noblest motives.”

“A man can be happy with any woman as long as he does not love her.”

“I knew nothing but shadows and I thought them to be real.”

“All art is quite useless.”

“Men marry because they are tired; women, because they are curious: both are disappointed.”

“You like every one; that is to say, you are indifferent to every one.”

“One can always be kind to people about whom one cares nothing.”

“We women, as some one says, love with our ears, just as you men love with your eyes, if you ever love at all.”

“They get up early, because they have so much to do, and go to bed early, because they have so little to think about. ”

“There is always something ridiculous about the emotions of people whom one has ceased to love.”

“Man is many things, but he is not rational.”

“Sin is a thing that writes itself across a man's face. It cannot be concealed.”

“It is the stupid and the ugly who have the best of it in this world”

“You know more than you think you know, just as you know less than you want to know.”

“As long as a woman can look ten years younger than her daughter, she is perfectly satisfied”

“When we are happy, we are always good, but when we are good, we are not always happy.”

“I am happy in my prison of passion”

“In the wild struggle for existence, we want to have something that endures, and so we fill our minds with rubbish and facts, in the silly hope of keeping our place.”

“Women defend themselves by attacking, just as they attack by sudden and strange surrenders.”

“Where there is sorrow, there is holy ground.”

“Its a beautiful woman's fate to be the subject of conversation where ever she goes”

“What fire does not destroy, it hardens”

“The secret of remaining young is never to have an emotion that is unbecoming.”

“The worst of having a romance of any kind is that it leaves one so unromantic.”

“But beauty, real beauty, ends where an intellectual expression begins. Intellect is in itself a mode of exaggeration, and destroys the harmony of any face.”

“Being natural is simply a pose, and the most irritating pose I know.”

“We can have in life but one great experience at best, and the secret of life is to reproduce that experience as often as possible.”

“Women, as some witty Frenchman once put it, inspire us with the desire to do masterpieces and always prevent us from carrying them out.”

“There seemed to be something tragic in a friendship so coloured by romance.”

“I find him in the curves of certain lines, in the loveliness and subtleties of certain colours.”

“Then I feel, Harry, that I have given away my whole soul to someone who treats it as if it were a flower to put in his coat, a bit of decoration to charm his vanity, an ornament for a summer's day.”

“Most people are boring and stupid.”

“You seem to forget that I am married, and the one charm of marriage is that it makes a life of deception absolutely necessary for both parties.”

“Her trust makes me faithful, her belief makes me good.”

“Every impulse we strangle will only poison us.”

“She lives in the poetry she cannot write.”

“As for believing things, I can believe anything, provided that it is quite incredible.”

“She is a peacock in everything but beauty!”

“She knew nothing but she had everything he had lost.”

“because to influence a person is to give one's own soul.”

“We live in an age that reads too much to be wise, and that thinks too much to be beautiful.”

“Veil after veil of thin dusky gauze is lifted, and by degrees the forms and colours of things are restored to them, and we watch the dawn remaking the world in its antique pattern.”

“Genius lasts longer than beauty”

“Conscience makes egotists of us all.”

“I asked the question for the best reason possible, for the only reason, indeed, that excuses anyone for asking any question - simple curiosity.”

“I never take any notice to what common people say, and I never interfere with what charming people do.”

“The only horrible thing in the world is ennui.”

“There are few of us who have not sometimes wakened before dawn, either after one of those dreamless nights that make one almost enamoured of death, or one of those nights of horror and misshapen joy, when through the chambers of the brain sweep phantoms more terrible than reality itself, and instinct with that vivid life that lurks in all grotesques, and that lends to Gothic art its enduring vitality, this art being, one might fancy, especially the art of those whose minds have been troubled with the malady of reverie.”

“we always misunderstood ourselves, and rarely understood others”

“An artist should create beautiful things, but should put nothing of his own life into them.”

“It is a sad truth, but we have lost the faculty of giving lovely names to things. ”

“If a man treats life artistically, his brain is his heart”

“When critics disagree the artist is in accord with himself.”

“The bright dawn flooded the room, and swept the fantastic shadows into dusky corners, where they lay shuddering.”

“If I could get back my youth, I'd do anything in the world except get up early, take exercise or be respectable.”

“you will always love, and you will always be loved”

“The tragedy of old age is not that one is old, but that one is young.”

“The studio was filled with the rich odour of roses, and when the light summer wind stirred amidst the trees of the garden, there came through the open door the heavy scent of the lilac, or the more delicate perfume of the pink-flowering thorn.”

“I have given away my whole soul to some one who treats it as if it were a flower to put in his coat, a bit of decoration to charm his vanity, an ornament for a summer's day.”

“Believe me, no civilized man ever regrets a pleasure, and no uncivilized man ever knows what a pleasure is.”

“There were moments when he looked on evil simply as a mode through which he could realize his conception of the beautiful.”

“If they know nothing of victory, they are at least spared the knowledge of defeat.”

“Each of us has heaven and hell in him, Basil, cried Dorian with a wild gesture of despair.”

“Even things that are true can be proved.”

“People are very fond of giving away what they need most themselves.”

“There is a fatality about good resolutions – that they are always made too late”

“The terror of society, which is the basis of morals, the terror of God, which is the secret of religion-these are the two things that govern us.”

“It was the passions about whose origin we deceived ourselves that tyrannized most strongly over us.”

“You became to me the visible incarnation of that unseen ideal whose memory haunts us artists like an exquisite dream.”

“but the bravest man among us is afraid of himself”

“If you want to tell people the truth, make them laugh, otherwise they'll kill you.”

“One should never do anything that one cannot talk about after dinner.”

“Those who go beneath the surface, do so at their peril.”

“The sky was pure opal now.”

“There were opium-dens, where one could buy oblivion, dens of horror where the memory of old sins could be destroyed by the madness of sins that were new.”

“The birds that were singing in the dew-drenched garden seemed to be telling the flowers about her.”

“He is all my art to me now.”

“If one were to live his life fully and completely were to give form to every feeling, expression to every thought, reality to every dream.”

“Pleasure is Nature's test, her sign of approval.”

“Life has always poppies in her hands.”

“Women treat us like humanity treats gods—they worship us and keep bothering us to do something for them.”

“Punctuality is but the thief of time”

“It often seems to me that art conceals the artist far more completely than it ever reveals him.”

“Perhaps in nearly every joy, as certainly in every pleasure, cruelty has its place.”

“anything becomes a pleasure if one does it too often,”