“I know not all that may be coming, but be it what it will, I'll go to it laughing.”

“It is not down on any map; true places never are.”

“Better to sleep with a sober cannibal than a drunk Christian.”

“I try all things, I achieve what I can.”

“Ignorance is the parent of fear.”

“Talk not to me of blasphemy, man; I'd strike the sun if it insulted me.”

“Call me Ishmael.”

“I love to sail forbidden seas, and land on barbarous coasts.”

“Think not, is my eleventh commandment; and sleep when you can, is my twelfth.”

“See how elastic our prejudices grow when once love comes to bend them.”

“It is the easiest thing in the world for a man to look as if he had a great secret in him.”

“There is no folly of the beast of the earth which is not infinitely outdone by the madness of man.”

“Our souls are like those orphans whose unwedded mothers die in bearing them: the secret of our paternity lies in their grave, and we must there to learn it.”

“Top-heavy was the ship as a dinnerless student with all Aristotle in his head.”

“In this world, shipmates, sin that pays its way can travel freely and without a passport; whereas Virtue, if a pauper, is stopped at all frontiers.”

“There is, one knows not what sweet mystery about this sea, whose gently awful stirrings seem to speak of some hidden soul beneath...”

“But even so, amid the tornadoed Atlantic of my being, do I myself still for ever centrally disport in mute calm; and while ponderous planets of unwaning woe revolve round me, deep down and deep inland there I still bathe me in eternal mildness of joy.”

“He piled upon the whale's white hump the sum of all the general rage and hate felt by his whole race from Adam down; and then, as if his chest had been a mortar, he burst his hot heart's shell upon it.”

“In one word, Queequeg, said I, rather digressively; hell is an idea first born on an undigested apple-dumpling; and since then perpetuated through the hereditary dyspepsias nurtured by Ramadans.”

“All my means are sane, my motive and my object mad.”

“Wonderfullest things are ever the unmentionable; deep memories yield no epitaphs”

“God help thee, old man, thy thoughts have created a creature in thee; and he whose intense thinking thus makes him a Prometheus; a vulture feeds upon that heart forever; the vulture the very creature he creates.”

“Then all collapsed, and the great shroud of the sea rolled on as it rolled five thousand years ago.”

“Yes, as everyone knows, meditation and water are wedded for ever.”

“For all men tragically great are made so through a certain morbidness. Be sure of this, O young ambition, all mortal greatness is but disease.”

“Let faith oust fact; let fancy oust memory; I look deep down and do believe.”

“We cannibals must help these Christians.”

“There is no folly of the beasts of the earth which is not infinitely outdone by the madness of men.”

“Because no man can ever feel his own identity aright except his eyes be closed; as if darkness were indeed the proper element of our essences, though light be more congenial to our clayey part.”

“From beneath his slouched hat Ahab dropped a tear into the sea; nor did all the Pacific contain such wealth as that one wee drop.”

“Yea, foolish mortals, Noah's flood is not yet subsided; two thirds of the fair world it yet covers.”

“the great floodgates of the wonder-world swung open”

“All mortal greatness is but disease.”

“I am past scorching; not easily can’st thou scorch a scar.”

“Queequeg was George Washington cannibalistically developed.”

“and tell him to paint me a sign, with-"no suicides permitted here, and no smoking in the parlor;" might as well kill both birds at once.”

“Thought he, it's a wicked world in all meridians; I'll die a pagan.”

“I promise nothing complete; because any human thing supposed to be complete, must for that very reason infallibly be faulty.”

“That immaculate manliness we feel within ourselves, so far within us, that it remains intact though all the outer character seem gone; bleeds with keenest anguish at the undraped spectacle of a valor-ruined man.”

“Thou saw'st the locked lovers when leaping from their flaming ship; heart to heart they sank beneath the exulting wave; true to each other, when heaven seemed false to them.”

“My body is but the lees of my better being.”

“what are the comprehensible terrors of man compared with the interlinked terrors and wonders of God!”

“And here, shipmates, is true and faithful repentance; not clamorous for pardon, but grateful for punishment.”

“Consider the subtleness of the sea; how its most dreaded creatures glide under water, unapparent for the most part, and treacherously hidden beneath the loveliest tints of azure.”

“Ahab and aguish lay stretched together in one hammock.”

“Ignorance is the parent of fear”

“Yet Dives himself, he too lives like a Czar in an ice palace of frozen sighs, and being a president of a temperance society, he only drinks the tepid tears of orphans.”

“In truth, a mature man who uses hair oil, unless medicinally, that man has probably got a quoggy spot in him somewhere.”

“Were I the wind, I'd blow no more on such a wicked, miserable world.”

“it is better to sail with a moody good captain than a laughing bad one.”

“Woe to him whose good name is more to him than goodness”

“There is a wisdom that is woe; but there is a woe that is madness.”

“a purse is but a rag unless you have something in it.”

“Long exile from Christendom and civilization inevitably restores a man to that condition in which God placed him, i.e. what is called savagery.”

“There is all the different in the world between paying and being paid.”

“Now small fowls flew screaming over the yet yawning gulf; a sullen white surf beat against its steep sides; then all collapsed, and the great shroud of the sea rolled on as it rolled five thousand years ago.”

“The warmly cool, clear, ringing, perfumed, overflowing, redundant days, were as crystal goblets of Persian sherbet, heaped up—flaked up, with rose-water snow.”

“It's only his outside; a man can be honest in any sort of skin.”

“Where lies the final harbor, whence we unmoor no more?”

“Looking into his eyes, you seemed to see there the yet lingering images of those thousand-fold perils he had calmly confronted through life.”

“for we all are dreadfully cracked about the head, and sadly need mending”

“I leave eternity to Thee; for what is man that he should live out the life-time of his God?”

“Old age is always wakeful; as if, the longer linked with life, the less man has to do with aught that looks like death.”

“For we are all killers, on land and on sea; Bonapartes and Sharks included.”

“But vain to popularize profundities, and all truth is profound.”

“Oh, thou clear spirit, of thy fire thou madest me, and like a true child of fire, I breathe it back to thee.”

“Now then, thought I, unconsciously rolling up the sleeve of my frock, here goes for a cool, collected dive at death and destruction, and the devil fetch the hindmost.”

“for all his tattooings he was on the whole a clean, comely looking cannibal”

“Of such a letter, Death himself might well have been the post-boy.”

“The classification of the constituents of a chaos, nothing less is here essayed.”

“an utterly fearless man is a far more dangerous comrade than a coward.”

“nameless miseries of the numberless mortals”

“And if we obey God, we must disobey ourselves; and it is in disobeying ourselves, wherein the hardness of obeying God consists.”

“I love to sail forbidden seas and land on barbarous coasts.”

“if you can get nothing better out of the world, get a good dinner out of it, at least.”

“Methinks that what they call my shadow here on earth is my true substance.”

“An intense copper calm, like a universal yellow lotus, was more and more unfolding its noiseless measureless leaves upon the sea.”

“A good laugh is a mighty good thing, and rather too scarce a good thing--mores the pity.”

“Hast seen the white whale?”

“In this world, headwinds are far more prevalent than winds from astern (that is, if you never violate the Pythagorean maxim).”

“With a frigate’s anchors for my bridle-bitts and fasces of harpoons for spurs, would I could mount that whale and leap the topmost skies, to see whether the fabled heavens with all their countless tents really lie encamped beyond my mortal sight!”

“Who has but once dined his friends, has tasted what it is to be Caesar.”

“Reality outran apprehension; Captain Ahab stood upon his quarter-deck.”

“And what are you, reader, but a Loose-Fish and a Fast-Fish, too?”

“Thou hast but enraged, not insulted me, sir; but for that I ask thee not to beware of Starbuck; thou wouldst but laugh; but let Ahab beware of Ahab; beware of thyself, old man.”

“He offered a prayer so deeply devout that he seemed kneeling and praying at the bottom of the sea.”

“The truest of all men was the Man of Sorrows, and the truest of all books is Solomon's, and Ecclesiastes is the fine hammered steel of woe.”

“But when a man suspects any wrong, it sometimes happens that if he be already involved in the matter, he insensibly strives to cover up his suspicions even from himself.”

“Verily there is nothing new under the sun.”

“Heaven have mercy on us all—Presbyterians and Pagans alike—for we are all somehow dreadfully cracked about the head, and sadly need mending.”

“Of all tools used in the shadow of the moon, men are the most apt to get out of order.”

“The White Whale swam before him as the monomaniac incarnation of all those malicious agencies which some deep men feel eating them, till they are left living with half a heart and half a lung.”

“Men may seem detestable as joint stock-companies and nations; knaves, fools, and murderers there may be; men may have mean and meagre faces; but man, in the ideal, is so noble and so sparkling, such a grand and glowing creature, that over any ignominious blemish in him all his fellows should run to throw their costliest robes.”

“Adverse winds are holding mad Christmas in him, boys.”

“Truly to enjoy bodily warmth, some small part of you must be cold, for there is no quality in this world that is not what it is merely by contrast.”

“Some certain significance lurk in all things, else all things are little worth, and the round world itself but an empty cipher except to sell by the cartload, as they do hills about Boston, to fill up some morass in the Milky Way.”

“What he ate did not so much relieve his hunger, as keep it immortal in him.”

“I wonder, Flask, whether the world is anchored anywhere; if she is, she swings with an uncommon long cable, though.”

“Queequeq, my fine friend, does this sort of thing often happen?”

“but the reason why the grave-digger made music must have been because there was none in his spade”

“To insure the greatest efficiency in the dart, the harpooners of this world must start to their feet from out of idleness, and not from out of toil.”